[IMP] accounting: add Hong Kong payroll (#8204)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/hong_kong.rst

Activate QR codes
-----------------

Go to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings`. Under the :guilabel:`Customer
Payments` section, activate the :guilabel:`QR Codes` feature.

FPS bank account configuration
------------------------------

Go to :menuselection:`Contacts app --> Configuration --> Bank Accounts: Bank Accounts` and select the bank account for

> FPS activation. Set the :guilabel:`Proxy Type` and fill in the :guilabel:`Proxy Value` field depending 
> on the type chosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FPS activation. Set the :guilabel:`Proxy Type` and fill in the :guilabel:`Proxy Value` field depending
on the type chosen.
```

  payslip.
- :guilabel:`Custom Average Monthly Salary`: to override the average monthly salary used for
  end-of-year payment (rule is only applicable on payslip generated in December).

Once the payslips are ready, click on :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` followed by :guilabel:`Create Draft entry`
to generate a draft journal entry found in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab of the payslip.

Pay employees
-------------

Once the draft journal entries have been posted, the company can now pay the employees. The user can
choose between **two** different *payment methods*:

- From the employee's payslip (:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> All Payslips`), once the
  payslip's journal entry has been posted, click :guilabel:`Register Payment`. The process is the
  same as :doc:`paying vendor bills <../accounting/payments>`. Select the desired bank journal and
  payment method, then later reconcile the payment with the corresponding bank statement.
- For batch payments (:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`), once all draft journal
  entries from the batch are confirmed, click :guilabel:`Mark as Paid` to post the payment journal

>   entry. Then :doc:`create a payment <../accounting/payments>` in the :guilabel:`Accounting` app and reconcile

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  entry. Then :doc:`create a payment <../accounting/payments>` in the *Accounting* app, and reconcile
```

  accordingly.

> Attendances & hourly wage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attendances and hourly wage
```

-------------------------

> To configure the contract for an employee paid hourly using the :guilabel:`Attendances` app for hours

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the contract for an employee paid hourly using the *Attendances* app for hours
```

tracking, navigate to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Contracts --> Contracts`.
Create a new :ref:`contract <hong_kong/manage_contracts>`. It is important to remember to set the

> :guilabel:`Work Entry Source` as :guilabel:`Attendances` and :guilabel:`Wage Type` as :guilabel:`Hourly Wage`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Work Entry Source` as :guilabel:`Attendances`, and :guilabel:`Wage Type` as :guilabel:`Hourly Wage`.
```

> To record the hours logged by the employee using :guilabel:`Attendances` app:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To record the hours logged by the employee using *Attendances* app:
```

#. Go to :menuselection:`Attendances app`.

> #. The employee can check-in/out via the kiosk mode and the time will be logged automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. The employee can check-in/out, via the kiosk mode, and the time will be logged automatically.
```

#. In the :menuselection:`Payroll app`, review the attendance work entries generated from
   :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries --> Work Entries`.
#. Next, generate the :ref:`payslips <hong_kong/running_payslips>` and process the payment.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-attendance-work-entry.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Hong Kong Attendance Work Entry

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-attendance-payslip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Hong Kong Attendance Payslip

Time Off with Payroll
---------------------

> The work entry types and time off types are fully integrated between the :guilabel:`Time Off` and
> :guilabel:`Payroll` apps. There are several default time off types and work entry types specific to 
> Hong Kong which are installed automatically along with the :guilabel:`Hong Kong - Payroll` module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The work entry types and time off types are fully integrated between the *Time Off* and
*Payroll* apps. There are several default time off types and work entry types specific to 
Hong Kong which are installed automatically along with the *Hong Kong - Payroll* module.
```

> Go to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Configuration --> Work Entry Types` and click :guilabel:`New`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Configuration --> Work Entry Types`, and click :guilabel:`New`.
```

There are two checkboxes to be considered when setting up the work entry type:

> - :guilabel:`Use 713`: This leave type to be included as part of 713 computation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Use 713`: Include this leave type as part of 713 computation.
```

- :guilabel:`Non-full pay`: 80% of the :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)`.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-work-entry-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Hong Kong Work Entry Type

.. seealso::
   :ref:`Creating and configuring work entry types <payroll/work-entries>`

Understanding 713 Ordinance
---------------------------

> The :guilabel:`Hong Kong - Payroll` module is compliant with 713 Ordinance which relates to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *Hong Kong - Payroll* module is compliant with 713 Ordinance, which relates to the
```

:abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` computation to ensure fair compensation for employees.

The ADW computation is as follows:

.. figure:: hong_kong/hk-adw.png
   :alt: Hong Kong ADW Formula

>    :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` equals the total wage in a 12-month period minus the wages of
>    non-full pay, divided by the total days in a 12-month period minus the days of non-full pay.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` equals the total wage in a 12-month period, minus the wages of
   non-full pay, divided by the total days in a 12-month period minus the days of non-full pay.
```

.. note::
   For 418 compliance, there is no automated allocation of the *Statutory Holiday* entitlement to

>    the employees. As soon as 418 requirements are met, manually allocate the leaves via the *Time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   the employees. As soon as 418 requirements are met, manually allocate the leaves, via the *Time
```

   Off* app.

.. note::
   Before generating payslips, ensure the statuses are :guilabel:`Done` to validate the outcome.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Period
     - Days
     - Wage
     - Commission
     - Total
     - ADW
     - Leave Value
   * - Jan
     - 31
     - $20200
     - $0
     - $20200
     - $651.61 ($20200/31)
     - N/A
   * - Feb
     - 28
     - $20200
     - $5000
     - $25200
     - $769.49 ($45400/59)
     - N/A
   * - Mar (One Day Annual Leave)
     - 31
     - $20324.33
     - $0
     - $20324.33
     - $730.27 ($65724.33/90)
     - $769.49
   * - Apr (One Day 80% Sick Leave)
     - 30
     - $20117.56
     - $0
     -
     -
     - $584.22 ($730.27*0.8)

.. example::
   Here is an example demonstrating the 713 logic:

   - **Jan**: Generate a payslip with a monthly wage of $20200. The :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)`
     is always computed on a cumulative basis of the trailing 12-months.

>    - **Feb**: Generate a similar payslip but add an :guilabel:`Other Input Type` for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - **Feb**: Generate a similar payslip, but add an :guilabel:`Other Input Type` for the
```

     :guilabel:`Commission`.
   - **Mar**: Apply for **one** full-paid annual leave in March. The salary compensation for the
     leave taken is based on :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` thus far.

     .. image:: hong_kong/hk-march-713.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Hong Kong March 713

   - **Apr**: Apply for a 1-day non-full pay leave in April. Since this is a non-full pay leave, the
     :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` is computed accordingly.

     .. image:: hong_kong/hk-apr-713.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Hong Kong April 713

.. note::

>    The value of :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` is computed in the backend and not be visible to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The value of :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` is computed in the backend, and not be visible to
```

   the user.

.. seealso::
   - `HK 713 Ordinance <https://www.labour.gov.hk/eng/public/wcp/ConciseGuide/Appendix1.pdf>`_
   - `HK 418 Ordinance <https://www.workstem.com/hk/en/blog/418-regulations/>`_

Generate reports
----------------

Before generating the below reports, setup the following in :menuselection:`Settings app -->
Payroll`.

Configure the following in the :guilabel:`Accounting` section:

> - Check the :guilabel:`Payroll HSBC Autopay` checkbox.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Tick the :guilabel:`Payroll HSBC Autopay` checkbox.
```

  - :guilabel:`Autopay Type`: Set as :guilabel:`H2H Submission`.
  - Select the :guilabel:`Bank Account` to use.

Configure the following in the :guilabel:`HK Localization` section:

- :guilabel:`Employer's Name shows on reports`
- :guilabel:`Employer's File Number`
- :guilabel:`Manulife MPF Scheme`

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-report-setup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Hong Kong Payroll Settings

IRD report
~~~~~~~~~~

There are a total of **four** IRD reports available:

- :guilabel:`IR56B`: employer's Return of Remuneration and Pensions.
- :guilabel:`IR56E`: notification of Commencement of Employment.
- :guilabel:`IR56F`: notification of Ceasation of Employment (remaining in HK).
- :guilabel:`IR56G`: notification of Ceasation of Employment (departing from HK permanently).

> Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Reporting` and select one of the :guilabel:`IR56B/E/F/G Sheet`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Reporting`, and select one of the :guilabel:`IR56B/E/F/G Sheet`
```

options:

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.
#. Fill in the relevant information for the IRD report.

> #. Click on :guilabel:`Populate` and the :guilabel:`Eligible Employees` smart button appears.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Click on :guilabel:`Populate`, and the :guilabel:`Eligible Employees` smart button appears.
```

#. The :guilabel:`Employee Declarations` status is :guilabel:`Draft` and changed to
   :guilabel:`Generated PDF` status once the schedule runs.
#. Once the PDF is generated, the IRD form may be downloaded.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-ir56b.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Hong Kong IR56B report

.. note::
   The scheduled action called *Payroll: Generate pdfs* can be manually triggered. It is set by
   default to run the PDF generation monthly.

Manulife MPF sheet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Reporting --> Manulife MPF Sheet`.

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.

> #. Select the relevant :guilabel:`Year`, :guilabel:`Month` and :guilabel:`Sequence No.`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Select the relevant :guilabel:`Year`, :guilabel:`Month`, and :guilabel:`Sequence No.`.
```

#. Click on :guilabel:`Create XLSX`.

> #. The *Manulife MPF XLSX* file is then generated and available for download.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. The *Manulife MPF XLSX* file is then generated, and available for download.
```

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-manulife-sheet.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Hong Kong Manulife Sheet.

.. note::

>    Odoo will not be developing further reports for other MPF trustee as there is soon an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Odoo will not be developing further reports for other MPF trustee, as there will soon be an
```

   e-MPF platform setup by the local government.

.. seealso::
   `eMPF <https://www.mpfa.org.hk/en/empf/overview>`_

HSBC autopay report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If *HSBC Autopay* is selected as the batch payment method, click on :guilabel:`Create HSBC Autopay

> Report`. and fill in the mandatory fields:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Report`, and fill in the mandatory fields:
```

  .. important::
     Timesheets do not impact work entries in Odoo.

Once all information has been setup, set the contract status to `Running` by clicking the :guilabel:`Running` button 
in the top-right of the page.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-contract.png
   :alt: Hong Kong employment contract

.. _hong_kong/running_payslips:

Generate payslips
-----------------

Once the employees and their contracts are configured, payslips can be generated in the *Payroll* app.

Odoo provides **four** different salary structures under CAP57 Regulation:

#. :guilabel:`Employees Monthly Pay`: To process the monthly employee salary.
#. :guilabel:`Payment in Lieu of Notice`: To process final payment upon contract termination.
#. :guilabel:`Long Service Payment`: Applicable to employees with more than 5 years of service upon
   contract termination.
#. :guilabel:`Severance Payment`: Applicable to employees with more than 2 years of service upon
   contract termination.

Before running the payslips, the accounts used in the salary rule can be adjusted by navigating to

> :menuselection:`Payroll --> Configurations --> Rules`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Configurations --> Rules`.
```

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-salary-rules.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Salary Rules

> Odoo can create pay runs in **two** ways: via **individual** or via **batch** payslips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo can create pay runs in **two** ways: via **individual** or **batch** payslips.
```

I recommend to have the order of the below sections match this sentence. Either switch Individual and Batches sectoins below, or swap the words in this sentence, for consistency.

.. _hong_kong/batch_payslips:

Batch payslips
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`
This method of payslip generation is used for recurring payments, since multiple employee payslips 
can be managed at once.

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.
#. Enter a :guilabel:`Batch Name` (e.g, `2024 – Jan`) and :guilable:`Period` (e.g. 01/01/2024 - 01/31/2024)
#. Click on :guilabel:`Generate Payslips`.
#. Choose which **Salary Structure** to use for this batch. The department filter allows the batch to 
   apply to only a specific group of employees.
#. Click on :guilabel:`Generate`.
#. A :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button is created automatically.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-batch-payslips.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Batch Payslips

> Next, click :guilabel:`Create Draft entry` to generate a draft journal entry found in the :guilabel:`Other Info` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` to generate a draft journal entry found in the :guilabel:`Other Info` 
```

> tab of each payslips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tab of each payslips. A :guilael:`Confirmation` pop-up window appears asking `Are you sure you want to proceed?` Click :guilael:`Ok` to create the journal entries.
```

Individual payslips
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> All Payslips`
This method of payslip generation is commonly used to handle non-recurring payments (e.g. Payment in Lieu
of Notice, Long Service Payment, Severance Payment).

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.
#. Select an :guilabel:`Employee`; their :guilabel:`Contract` are filled out automatically
#. Add a pay :guilabel:`Period`
#. Select a salary :guilabel:`Structure` (e.g. Employees Monthly Pay)

> #. The **Worked Days** tab automatically compute the worked days/hours and time-off leaves

Reviewer: gui for worked days

   that are applicable.
#. Additional payslip items can be added at this time (e.g. Commissions, Deductions) under the

>    **Other Inputs** section.

Reviewer: gui for Other Inputs

   :guilabel:`Recompute Whole Sheet` to refresh the payslip's **Worked Day & Inputs** section.

The :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab shows the detailed breakdown of the computation based on
the salary rules configured for each structure type.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-salary-computation.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Salary computation

#. :guilabel:`Rent Allowance`: Amount derived from the employee's active rental record.
#. :guilabel:`Basic Salary`: Amount of base salary provided (after rent allowance deduction)
#. :guilabel:`713 Gross`: Net payable amount considering Commission, Internet Allowance, Reimbursements, 
   Back-pay, Deduction, etc.
#. :guilabel:`MPF Gross`: Net payable amount from 713 gross after consideration of additional allowances, 
   deductions and end-of-year payment.
#. :guilabel:`Employee Mandatory Contribution`: Employee MPF Contribution
#. :guilabel:`Employer Mandatory Contribution`: Employer MPF Contribution
#. :guilabel:`Gross`: Net payable amount from MPF gross after consideration of MPF deductions.
#. :guilabel:`Net Salary`: Final payable amount to be paid to the employee.

> .. note::

Reviewer: this might be an 'important' block- I feel this is pretty important to know.

types that are specific to HK Payroll:

- :guilabel:`Back Pay`: Additional salary payout can be included under this category.
- :guilabel:`Commission`: The commission earned during the period can be manually entered here.
- :guilabel:`Global Deduction`: A lump-sum deduction from the entire payslip.
- :guilabel:`Global Reimbursement`: A lump-sum reimbursement to the entire payslip.
- :guilabel:`Referral Fee`: The additional bonus offered for any form of business-related referral.
- :guilabel:`Moving Daily Wage`: To override the :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` value used for leaves computation.
- :guilabel:`Skip Rent Allowance`: If set, the rental allowance is excluded from the current payslip.
- :guilabel:`Custom Average Monthly Salary`: To override the average monthly salary used for end-of-year payment.

Once the payslips are ready, click :guilabel:`Create Draft entry` to generate a draft journal entry 
found in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab of the payslip.

Paying employees
----------------

Once the draft journal entries have been posted, the company can now pay the employees.
The user can choose between **two** different **payment methods**.

> - From the employee's payslip (:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips`), once the payslip's journal

Reviewer: to pay? all payslips? batches? The lat part of this direciton needs to be added.

  entry has been posted, click :guilabel:`Register Payment`. The process is the same as
  :doc:`paying vendor bills <../accounting/payments>`: select the desired bank journal and payment
  method, then later reconcile the payment with the corresponding bank statement.

> - For batch payments, once  all draft journal entries from the batch are confirmed, click :guilabel:`Mark as Paid` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For batch payments, once all draft journal entries from the batch are confirmed, click :guilabel:`Mark as Paid` 
```

  to post the payment journal entry. Then create a manual payment in the *Accounting* app and 

>   reconcile accordingly.

Reviewer: is there a document with these instrucitons that can be referenced here?

Attendances & Hourly Wage
-------------------------

> Setup the contract as follows for employees who are based on hourly-wage contract:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setup the contract as follows for employees who are paid based on an hourly-wage contract:
```

.. important::
   Make sure the employee contract is using **Attendance** as the Work Entry Source and the Wage
   Type is set to **Hourly Wage**.

> #. Go to *Attendance* app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Go to *Attendances* app.
```

#. The employee can check-in/out via the kiosk mode.
#. In the *Payroll* app, review the attendance work entries generated from

>    :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries --> Work Entries`.
```

#. Next, generate the :ref:`payslips <hong_kong/running_payslips>` and process the payment.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-attendance-work-entry.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Attendance Work Entry

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-attendance-payslip.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Attendance Payslip

> Time-Off with Payroll

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time off with payroll
```

---------------------

> The work entry types and time-off types are fully integrated between the *Time-off* and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The work entry types and time off types are fully integrated between the *Time-off* and
```
The app is called Time Off and I believe all reference do not have a hyphen. Please double check this is correct- always ave it witten as it does in the specific screen shot for the step. However it is, it needs to be corrected in the below as well.

> *Payroll* apps. There are several time-off types and work entry types specific to HK which are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Payroll* apps. There are several time-off types and work entry types specific to Hong Kong which are
```

installed automatically along with the *HK-Payroll* module.

There are two checkboxes to be considered when setting up the work entry type:

- :guilabel:`Use 713`: This leave type to be included as part of 713 computation.
- :guilabel:`Non-full pay`: 80% of the :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)`.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-work-entry-type.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Work Entry Type

Understanding 713 Ordinance
---------------------------

The HK Payroll module is compliant with 713 Ordinance which relates to the
:abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` computation to ensure fair compensation for employees.

The ADW computation is as follows:

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-adw.png
   :alt: Hong Kong ADW Formula

.. note::
   For 418 compliance, there is no automated allocation of the **Statutory Holiday**
   entitlement to the employees. As soon as 418 requirements are met, manually allocate the leaves 

>    via the *Time-Off* app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   via the *Time Off* app.
```

Ensure that the :guilabel:`Recipient Bank` is configured, as Odoo uses this field to generate the FPS QR code.

.. _hong_kong/payroll:

Payroll
=======

.. important::
   Ensure the 🇭🇰 `Hong Kong - Payroll` module is installed before proceeding.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-payroll-module.png
   :alt: HK Payroll module

Create employees
----------------

Go to the *Employees* app and click :guilabel:`New`.

Here are a list of supplementary fields to input before starting:

Under the :guilabel:`Work Information` tab:

- :guilabel:`Working Hours`: HK Standard 40 hours/week **must** be selected.

Under the :guilabel:`Private Information` tab:

- :guilabel:`Surname, Given Name, Name in Chinese`: Name of the employee
- :guilabel:`Identification No`: HKID of the employee
- :guilabel:`Gender`: Gender of the employee
- :guilabel:`Private Address`: Address of the employee
- :guilabel:`Bank Account Number`: Employee's bank account number
- :guilabel:`Current Rental`: Employee's rental records (if rental allowance is applicable)
- :guilabel:`Autopay Type`: BBAN, SVID, EMAL, etc
- :guilabel:`Autopay Reference`: Autopay Reference Number

.. important::

>    For the :guilabel:`Bank Account Number`, set the :guilabel:`Send Money` field to :guilabel:`Trusted`. If 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For the :guilabel:`Bank Account Number`, set the :guilabel:`Send Money` field to :guilabel:`Trusted`. If
```

   this is not set to :guilabel:`Trusted`, money **cannot** be tranferred to the employee's bank acocunt.

.. note::
   For the :guilabel:`Current Rental`, set the Current Rental's :guilabel:`state` to :guilabel:`Running`.

Under the :guilabel:`HR Settings` tab:

- :guilabel:`Volunteer Contribution Option`: Select either :abbr:`MC (Mandatory Contribution)`, Fixed % :abbr:`VC (Voluntary Contribution)` or Cap 5% VC (max-out at 5%), if desired.
- :guilabel:`MPF Manulife Account`: Account number if applicable.

Manage contracts
----------------

Once the new employee has been created, click the :guilabel:`Contracts` smart button on the
employee record, or navigate to :menuselection:`Employees app--> Employees --> Contracts`.

.. note::
   Only **one** contract can be active simultaneously per employee, but an employee can be assigned
   consecutive contracts during their employment.

The following are critical for setting up a contract:

- :guilabel:`Working Schedule`: Set as HK Standard 40 hours/week (from employee record)
- :guilabel:`Salary Structue Type`: Set as CAP57: Hong Kong Employee.

> - :guilabel:`Work Entry Source`: Select either :guilabel:`Working Schedule`, :guilabel:`Attendances` or :guilabel:`Planning`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Work Entry Source`: Select either :guilabel:`Working Schedule`, :guilabel:`Attendances` or :guilabel:`Planning`.
```

>   This field determines how the work entries are accounted for in the payslip. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This field determines how the work entries are accounted for in the payslip.

```

   - :guilabel:`Working Schedule`: The work entries are generated automatically based on the employee's working schedule.
   - :guilabel:`Attendances`: The work entries are generated based on the check-in/-out period logged in the *Attendances* app.
   - :guilabel:`Planning`: The work entries are generated from planning shifts only.

Under the :guilabel:`Salary Information` tab:

- :guilabel:`Wage Type`: Select :guilabel:`Fixed Wage` for Full-time or Part-time employees, or :guilabel:`Hourly Wage` for employees who are paid hourly.
- :guilabel:`Wage`: Monthly or Hourly depending on the company.
- :guilabel:`Internet Subscription`: This is an **optional** field to provide additional internet allowance on top of the current salary package.

  .. important::
     Timesheets do **not** impact work entries in Odoo.

> Once all information has been setup, set the contract status to :guilabel:`Running` by clicking the :guilabel:`Running` button 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all information has been setup, set the contract status to :guilabel:`Running` by clicking the :guilabel:`Running` button
```

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-contract.png
   :alt: Hong Kong employment contract

.. _hong_kong/running_payslips:

Generate payslips
-----------------

Once the employees and their contracts are configured, payslips can be generated in the *Payroll* app.

Odoo provides **four** different salary structures under CAP57 Regulation:

#. :guilabel:`Employees Monthly Pay`: To process the monthly employee salary.
#. :guilabel:`Payment in Lieu of Notice`: To process final payment upon contract termination.
#. :guilabel:`Long Service Payment`: Applicable to employees with more than five years of service upon
   contract termination.
#. :guilabel:`Severance Payment`: Applicable to employees with more than two years of service upon
   contract termination.

Before running the payslips, the accounts used in the salary rule can be adjusted by navigating to
:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Configurations --> Rules`.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-salary-rules.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Salary Rules

Odoo can create pay runs in **two** ways: via **batch** or **individual** payslips.

.. _hong_kong/batch_payslips:

Batch payslips
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`

> This method of payslip generation is used for recurring payments, since multiple employee payslips 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method of payslip generation is used for recurring payments, since multiple employee payslips
```

can be managed at once.

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.

> #. Enter a :guilabel:`Batch Name` (e.g, `2024 – Jan`) and :guilable:`Period` (e.g. 01/01/2024 - 01/31/2024)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Enter a :guilabel:`Batch Name` (e.g, `2024 – Jan`) and :guilabel:`Period` (e.g. 01/01/2024 - 01/31/2024)
```

#. Click on :guilabel:`Generate Payslips`.

> #. Choose which :guilabel:`Salary Structure` to use for this batch. The department filter allows the batch to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Choose which :guilabel:`Salary Structure` to use for this batch. The department filter allows the batch to
```

   apply to only a specific group of employees.
#. Click on :guilabel:`Generate`.
#. A :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button is created automatically.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-batch-payslips.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Batch Payslips

> Next, click :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` to generate a draft journal entry found in the :guilabel:`Other Info` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` to generate a draft journal entry found in the :guilabel:`Other Info`
```

tab of each payslips. A :guilabel:`Confirmation` pop-up window appears asking `Are you sure you want to proceed?`.
Click :guilabel:`Ok` to create the journal entries.

Individual payslips
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> All Payslips`
This method of payslip generation is commonly used to handle non-recurring payments (e.g. Payment in Lieu
of Notice, Long Service Payment, Severance Payment).

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.
#. Select an :guilabel:`Employee`; their :guilabel:`Contract` are filled out automatically.
#. Add a pay :guilabel:`Period`.
#. Select a salary :guilabel:`Structure` (e.g. Employees Monthly Pay)

> #. The :guilabel:`Worked Days`tab automatically compute the worked days/hours and time off leaves
>    that are applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. The :guilabel:`Worked Days` tab automatically compute the worked days/hours and time off leaves
   that are applicable.
```

#. Additional payslip items can be added at this time (e.g. Commissions, Deductions) under the
   :guilabel:`Other Inputs` section.
#. Click on :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` button to generate the payslip lines. This button updates
   the :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-individual-payslip.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Individual Payslip

.. note::

>    If the work entry for an employee was amended, click the :guilabel:` ⚙ (gear)` icon, then click 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the work entry for an employee was amended, click the :guilabel:` ⚙ (gear)` icon, then click
```

   :guilabel:`Recompute Whole Sheet` to refresh the payslip's :guilabel:`Worked Days & Inputs` section.

The :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab shows the detailed breakdown of the computation based on
the salary rules configured for each structure type.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-salary-computation.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Salary computation

#. :guilabel:`Rent Allowance`: Amount derived from the employee's active rental record.
#. :guilabel:`Basic Salary`: Amount of base salary provided (after rent allowance deduction)

> #. :guilabel:`713 Gross`: Net payable amount considering Commission, Internet Allowance, Reimbursements, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. :guilabel:`713 Gross`: Net payable amount considering Commission, Internet Allowance, Reimbursements,
```

   Back-pay, Deduction, etc.

> #. :guilabel:`MPF Gross`: Net payable amount from 713 gross after consideration of additional allowances, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. :guilabel:`MPF Gross`: Net payable amount from 713 gross after consideration of additional allowances,
```

   deductions and end-of-year payment.
#. :guilabel:`Employee Mandatory Contribution`: Employee MPF Contribution
#. :guilabel:`Employer Mandatory Contribution`: Employer MPF Contribution
#. :guilabel:`Gross`: Net payable amount from MPF gross after consideration of MPF deductions.
#. :guilabel:`Net Salary`: Final payable amount to be paid to the employee.

.. important::
   There are no MPF contributions for the first month. Both **employee** and **employer**

>    contribution starts on **second** month. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   contribution starts on **second** month.
```

Under the :guilabel:`Other Inputs` tab at the bottom of payslip, there are additional manual input
types that are specific to *HK Payroll*:

- :guilabel:`Back Pay`: Additional salary payout can be included under this category.
- :guilabel:`Commission`: The commission earned during the period can be manually entered here.
- :guilabel:`Global Deduction`: A lump-sum deduction from the entire payslip.
- :guilabel:`Global Reimbursement`: A lump-sum reimbursement to the entire payslip.
- :guilabel:`Referral Fee`: The additional bonus offered for any form of business-related referral.
- :guilabel:`Moving Daily Wage`: To override the :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` value used for leaves computation.
- :guilabel:`Skip Rent Allowance`: If set, the rental allowance is excluded from the current payslip.
- :guilabel:`Custom Average Monthly Salary`: To override the average monthly salary used for end-of-year payment.

> Once the payslips are ready, click :guilabel:`Create Draft entry` to generate a draft journal entry 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the payslips are ready, click :guilabel:`Create Draft entry` to generate a draft journal entry
```

found in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab of the payslip.

Paying employees
----------------

Once the draft journal entries have been posted, the company can now pay the employees.
The user can choose between **two** different **payment methods**.

- From the employee's payslip (:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> All Payslips`), once the payslip's journal
  entry has been posted, click :guilabel:`Register Payment`. The process is the same as
  :doc:`paying vendor bills <../accounting/payments>`. Select the desired bank journal and payment
  method, then later reconcile the payment with the corresponding bank statement.

> - For batch payments, once all draft journal entries from the batch are confirmed, click :guilabel:`Mark as Paid` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For batch payments, once all draft journal entries from the batch are confirmed, click :guilabel:`Mark as Paid`
```

   :alt: Hong Kong Attendance Payslip

Time Off with Payroll
---------------------

The work entry types and time off types are fully integrated between the *Time Off* and
*Payroll* apps. There are several time off types and work entry types specific to Hong Kong which are
installed automatically along with the *HK Payroll* module.

There are two checkboxes to be considered when setting up the work entry type:

- :guilabel:`Use 713`: This leave type to be included as part of 713 computation.
- :guilabel:`Non-full pay`: 80% of the :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)`.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-work-entry-type.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Work Entry Type

Understanding 713 Ordinance
---------------------------

The *HK Payroll* module is compliant with 713 Ordinance which relates to the
:abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` computation to ensure fair compensation for employees.

The ADW computation is as follows:

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-adw.png
   :alt: Hong Kong ADW Formula

.. note::
   For 418 compliance, there is no automated allocation of the **Statutory Holiday**
   entitlement to the employees. As soon as 418 requirements are met, manually allocate the leaves 
   via the *Time Off* app.

> .. note::
> Before generating payslips, ensure the statuses are :guilabel:`Done` to validate the outcome:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   Before generating payslips, ensure the statuses are :guilabel:`Done` 
   to validate the outcome:
```

#. Once the PDF is generated, the IRD form may be downloaded.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-ir56b.png
   :alt: Hong Kong IR56B report

.. note::
   The scheduled action called :guilabel:`Payroll:Generate pdfs` can be manually triggered.
   It is set by default to run the PDF generation monthly.

Manulife MPF Sheet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Reporting --> Manulife MPF Sheet`

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.
#. Select the relevant Year, Month and Sequence No.
#. Click on :guilabel:`Create XLSX`.
#. The Manulife MPF XLSX file is then generated and available for download.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-manulife-sheet.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Manulife Sheet

.. note::
   Odoo will not be developing further reports for other MPF trustee as there is soon an
   e-MPF platform setup by the local government.

.. seealso::
   - `eMPF <https://www.mpfa.org.hk/en/empf/overview>`_

HSBC Autopay Report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If :guilabel:`HSBC Autopay` is selected as the batch payment method, click on :guilabel:`Craete HSBC Autopay Report`.
and fill in the mandatory fields:

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-generate-autopay.png
   :alt: Hong Kong HSBC Autopay Wizard

> This creates an **.apc** file format which can be uploaded to the HSCB portal for processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates an **.apc** file format which can be uploaded to the HSCB portal for processing.

```

> .. image:: hong_kong/hk-qr-code-invoice-setting.png

Author: I just checked and once you tick the 'QR Codes' feature in General Settings, the field should be visible in Other Info tab of the invoice. All steps should be complete in the existing iteration of the doc to reach the final outcome.

   :alt: Select EMV Merchant-Presented QR-code option

> Ensure that the :guilabel:`Recipient Bank` is configured, as Odoo uses this field to generate the FPS QR code.

Author: ![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/92574305/e9305473-5fce-40b5-ab3c-81cb7b7c5dbd)

This field should show up above the Payment QR Code field, I've tested this on runbot.

.. _hong_kong/payroll:

Payroll
=======

.. important::
   Ensure the 🇭🇰 `Hong Kong - Payroll` module is installed before proceeding.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-payroll-module.png
   :alt: HK Payroll module

Create employees
----------------

Go to the *Employees* app and click :guilabel:`New`.

Here are a list of supplementary fields to input before starting:

Under the :guilabel:`Work Information` tab:

> - :guilabel:`Working Hours`: HK Standard 40 hours/week **must** be selected.

Author: HK standard 40 hours is the name of the working schedule, will retain as-is.

Under the :guilabel:`Private Information` tab:

- :guilabel:`Surname, Given Name, Name in Chinese`: Name of the employee
- :guilabel:`Identification No`: HKID of the employee
- :guilabel:`Gender`: Gender of the employee
- :guilabel:`Private Address`: Address of the employee
- :guilabel:`Bank Account Number`: Employee's bank account number
- :guilabel:`Current Rental`: Employee's rental records (if rental allowance is applicable)
- :guilabel:`Autopay Type`: BBAN, SVID, EMAL, etc
- :guilabel:`Autopay Reference`: Autopay Reference Number

.. important::
   For the :guilabel:`Bank Account Number`, set the :guilabel:`Send Money` field to :guilabel:`Trusted`. If
   this is not set to :guilabel:`Trusted`, money **cannot** be tranferred to the employee's bank acocunt.

.. note::

>    For the :guilabel:`Current Rental`, set the Current Rental's :guilabel:`state` to :guilabel:`Running`.

Author: done!

.. note::
   Only **one** contract can be active simultaneously per employee, but an employee can be assigned
   consecutive contracts during their employment.

The following are critical for setting up a contract:

- :guilabel:`Working Schedule`: Set as HK Standard 40 hours/week (from employee record)
- :guilabel:`Salary Structue Type`: Set as CAP57: Hong Kong Employee.
- :guilabel:`Work Entry Source`: Select either :guilabel:`Working Schedule`, :guilabel:`Attendances` or :guilabel:`Planning`.
  This field determines how the work entries are accounted for in the payslip.

   - :guilabel:`Working Schedule`: The work entries are generated automatically based on the employee's working schedule.
   - :guilabel:`Attendances`: The work entries are generated based on the check-in/-out period logged in the *Attendances* app.
   - :guilabel:`Planning`: The work entries are generated from planning shifts only.

Under the :guilabel:`Salary Information` tab:

- :guilabel:`Wage Type`: Select :guilabel:`Fixed Wage` for Full-time or Part-time employees, or :guilabel:`Hourly Wage` for employees who are paid hourly.
- :guilabel:`Wage`: Monthly or Hourly depending on the company.

> - :guilabel:`Internet Subscription`: This is an **optional** field to provide additional internet allowance on top of the current salary package.

Author: the majority of fields are not compulsory nor do they impact the reports. many of them are simply standard fields of Payroll. I have updated to included some other fields which are important.

  .. important::
     Timesheets do **not** impact work entries in Odoo.

Once all information has been setup, set the contract status to :guilabel:`Running` by clicking the :guilabel:`Running` button

> in the top-right of the page.

Author: fixed by SALI

#. Enter a :guilabel:`Batch Name` (e.g, `2024 – Jan`) and :guilabel:`Period` (e.g. 01/01/2024 - 01/31/2024).
#. Click on :guilabel:`Generate Payslips`.
#. Choose which :guilabel:`Salary Structure` to use for this batch. The department filter allows the batch to
   apply to only a specific group of employees.
#. Click on :guilabel:`Generate`.
#. A :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button is created automatically.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-batch-payslips.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Batch Payslips

Next, click :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` to generate a draft journal entry found in the :guilabel:`Other Info`
tab of each payslips. A :guilabel:`Confirmation` pop-up window appears asking `Are you sure you want to proceed?`.
Click :guilabel:`Ok` to create the journal entries.

Individual payslips
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> All Payslips`
This method of payslip generation is commonly used to handle non-recurring payments (e.g. Payment in Lieu
of Notice, Long Service Payment, Severance Payment).

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.
#. Select an :guilabel:`Employee`; their :guilabel:`Contract` are filled out automatically.
#. Add a pay :guilabel:`Period`.

> #. Select a salary :guilabel:`Structure` (e.g. Employees Monthly Pay)

Author: this section is to generate individual payslips not via batch.

#. :guilabel:`Employer Mandatory Contribution`: Employer MPF Contribution
#. :guilabel:`Gross`: Net payable amount from MPF gross after consideration of MPF deductions.
#. :guilabel:`Net Salary`: Final payable amount to be paid to the employee.

.. important::
   There are no MPF contributions for the first month. Both **employee** and **employer**
   contribution starts on **second** month.

Under the :guilabel:`Other Inputs` tab at the bottom of payslip, there are additional manual input
types that are specific to *HK Payroll*:

- :guilabel:`Back Pay`: Additional salary payout can be included under this category.
- :guilabel:`Commission`: The commission earned during the period can be manually entered here.
- :guilabel:`Global Deduction`: A lump-sum deduction from the entire payslip.
- :guilabel:`Global Reimbursement`: A lump-sum reimbursement to the entire payslip.
- :guilabel:`Referral Fee`: The additional bonus offered for any form of business-related referral.
- :guilabel:`Moving Daily Wage`: To override the :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` value used for leaves computation.
- :guilabel:`Skip Rent Allowance`: If set, the rental allowance is excluded from the current payslip.

> - :guilabel:`Custom Average Monthly Salary`: To override the average monthly salary used for end-of-year payment.

Author: ![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/92574305/523aca6b-1187-49ea-9797-665599389117)

They should be there once the localization package is present. It is visible on my runbot.

Once the payslips are ready, click :guilabel:`Create Draft entry` to generate a draft journal entry

> found in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab of the payslip.

Author: yes will need to click on compute sheet first, I have amended the documentation

> Ensure that the :guilabel:`Recipient Bank` is the one you configured, as Odoo uses this field to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the :guilabel:`Recipient Bank` is configured, as Odoo uses this field to
```

generate the FPS QR code.

.. _hong_kong/payroll:

Payroll
=======

.. important::
   Please ensure the 🇭🇰 HK Payroll module is installed before you begin.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-payroll-module.png
   :alt: HK Payroll module

Create your employees
---------------------

Go to the **Employees** app and click :guilabel:`Create`.

Here are a list of supplementary fields to input before starting with HK Payroll:

Under the **Work Information** tab:

- :guilabel:`Working Hours`: You need to select HK Standard 40 hours/week.

Under the **Private Information** tab:

- :guilabel:`Surname, Given Name, Name in Chinese`
- :guilabel:`Identification No`
- :guilabel:`Gender`
- :guilabel:`Private Address`
- :guilabel:`Bank Account Number`: Employee's bank account number
- :guilabel:`Current Rental`: Employee's rental records (if rental allowance is applicable)
- :guilabel:`Autopay Type`: BBAN, SVID, EMAL, etc
- :guilabel:`Autopay Reference`

.. note::
   For the **Bank Account Number**, set the **Send Money** field to **Trusted**.

.. note::
   For the **Current Rental**, set the Current Rental's **status** to **Running**.

Under the **HR Settings** tab:

> - :guilabel:`Volunteer Contribution Option`: You may select either :abbr:`MC (Mandatory Contribution)`, Fixed % :abbr:`VC (Voluntary Contribution)` or Cap 5% VC (max-out at 5%)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Volunteer Contribution Option`: Select either :abbr:`MC (Mandatory Contribution)`, Fixed % :abbr:`VC (Voluntary Contribution)` or Cap 5% VC (max-out at 5%), if desired.
```

- :guilabel:`MPF Manulife Account`: Account number if applicable.

Manage your contracts
---------------------

Once you have created your employee, proceed to the :guilabel:`Contracts` smart button on the
employee record or by going to :menuselection:`Employees --> Employees --> Contracts`.

.. note::
   Only **one** contract can be active simultaneously per employee, but an employee can be assigned
   consecutive contracts during their employment.

Here are several key information to take note during contract setup:

- :guilabel:`Working Schedule`: Set as HK Standard 40 hours/week (from employee record)
- :guilabel:`Salary Structue Type`: Set as CAP57: Hong Kong Employee.
- :guilabel:`Work Entry Source`: You may choose between **Working Schedule**, **Attendances** or **Planning**. This field determines how the work entries are accounted for in the payslip.

>    - :guilabel:`Working Schedule`: The work entries are generated automatically based on the employee's Working Schedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - :guilabel:`Working Schedule`: The work entries are generated automatically based on the employee's working schedule.
```

   :alt: Hong Kong Batch Payslips

Once you are satisfied with the Payslips, click :guilabel:`Create Draft entry` to generate a draft
journal entry found in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab of each payslips.

Individual payslips
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Payslips --> All Payslips`
This method of payslip generation is commonly used to handle one-off payments (e.g. Payment in Lieu
of Notice, Long Service Payment, Severance Payment).

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.
#. Select an :guilabel:`Employee`; their :guilabel:`Contract` will be filled out automatically
#. Add a pay :guilabel:`Period`
#. Select a salary :guilabel:`Structure` (e.g. Employees Monthly Pay)
#. The **Worked Days** tab will automatically compute the worked days/hours and time-off leaves
   that are applicable.
#. You may also choose to add additional payslip items (e.g. Commissions, Deductions) under the
   **Other Inputs** section.
#. Click on :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` button to generate the payslip lines. This button will update
   the :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-individual-payslip.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Individual Payslip

.. note::

>    If you have amended the work entry for an employee, you will need to go to the **gear icon (⚙)**
>    and click on **Recompute Whole Sheet** to refresh the payslip's **Worked Day & Inputs** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the work entry for an employee was amended, click the :guilabel:` ⚙ (gear)` icon, then click :guilabel:`Recompute Whole Sheet` to refresh the payslip's **Worked Day & Inputs** section.
```

The :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab will show the detailed breakdown of the computation based on
the salary rules configured for each structure type.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-salary-computation.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Salary computation

#. **Rent Allowance**: Amount derived from the employee's active rental record.
#. **Basic salary**: Amount from which tax-deductible lines can be subtracted minus rental
   allowance.
#. **713 Gross**: Amount after considering allowances/deductions.

> #. **MPF Gross**

Reviewer: this is not defined- there should be a short explanation for everything the list.

#. **Employee Mandatory Contribution**: Employee MPF Contribution
#. **Employer Mandatory Contribution**: Employer MPF Contribution

> #. **Gross**

Reviewer: needs a definition

#. **Net Salary**: Final amount to be paid to the employee

> #. **Monthly End Autopay**

Reviewer: needs explanation

#. **Other Input Types**: Depends on whether there are additional items to be included in the payslip.

.. note::

>    Do note there will be no MPF contribution for the first month. Both **employee** and **employer**
>    contribution starts on second month and the **employer** contribution for the second month will
>    include back-pay of the first month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   There are no MPF contributions for the first month. Both **employee** and **employer**
   contribution starts on second month and the **employer** contribution for the second month will
   include back-pay of the first month.
```

Under the :guilabel:`Other Inputs` tab at the bottom of payslip, there are additional manual input
types that are specific to HK Payroll:

- :guilabel:`Back Pay`
- :guilabel:`Commission`
- :guilabel:`Global Deduction`
- :guilabel:`Global Reimbursement`
- :guilabel:`Referral Fee`
- :guilabel:`Moving Daily Wage`: if you wish to override the Average Daily Wage (ADW) for this month.
- :guilabel:`Skip Rent Allowance`

> - :guilabel:`Custom Average Monthly Salary`: only affecting end-of-year payments.

Reviewer: these should all be defined- there's only a few here, but to be consistent, everything should have an explanation, even if it sounds obvious.

Once you are satisfied with the Payslips, click :guilabel:`Create Draft entry` to generate a draft
journal entry found in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab of the payslip.

> Paying your employees
> ---------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paying employees
----------------
```

Once the draft journal entries have been posted, the company can now pay the employees.
The user can choose between **two** different **payment methods**.

> - From the employee's payslip (:menuselection:`Payroll --> Payslips`), once the payslip's journal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- From the employee's payslip (:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips`), once the payslip's journal
```

  entry has been posted, click :guilabel:`Register Payment`. The process is the same as
  :doc:`paying vendor bills <../accounting/payments>`: select the desired bank journal and payment
  method, then later reconcile the payment with the corresponding bank statement.

> - For batch payments, once you have confirmed all draft journal entries from the batch, you may
>   click :guilabel:`Mark as Paid` to post the payment journal entry. You may then create a manual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For batch payments, once  all draft journal entries from the batch are confirmed, click :guilabel:`Mark as Paid` to post the payment journal entry. Then create a manual
```

>   payment in the **Accounting** app and reconcile accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  payment in the *Accounting* app and reconcile accordingly.
```

Attendances & Hourly Wage
-------------------------

> You may setup the contract as follows for employees who are based on hourly-wage contract:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setup the contract as follows for employees who are based on hourly-wage contract:
```

.. note::
   Make sure the employee contract is using **Attendance** as the Work Entry Source and the Wage

>    Type is set to **Hourly Wage**.

Reviewer: could be an "important" block since this seems critical.

> #. Go to **Attendance** app.
> #. The employee can check-in/out via the kiosk mode.
> #. In the **Payroll** app, you can review the attendance work entries generated from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Go to the *Attendances* app.
#. The employee can check-in/out via the kiosk mode.
#. In the *Payroll* app, you can review the attendance work entries generated from
```

>    :menuselection:`Payroll --> Work Entries`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Work Entries`.
```

> #. Next, you can generate the :ref:`payslips <hong_kong/running_payslips>` and process payment.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Next, generate the :ref:`payslips <hong_kong/running_payslips>` and process the payment.

```

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-attendance-work-entry.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Attendance Work Entry

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-attendance-payslip.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Attendance Payslip

Time-Off with Payroll
---------------------

> The work entry types and time-off types are fully integrated between the **Time-off** and
> **Payroll** app. There are several time-off types and work entry types specific to HK which are
> installed automatically along with the **HK-Payroll** module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The work entry types and time-off types are fully integrated between the *Time-off* and
*Payroll* apps. There are several time-off types and work entry types specific to HK which are
installed automatically along with the *HK-Payroll* module.
```

There are two checkboxes to be considered when setting up the work entry type:

- :guilabel:`Use 713`: This leave type to be included as part of 713 computation.
- :guilabel:`Non-full pay`: 80% of the :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)`.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-work-entry-type.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Work Entry Type

Understanding 713 Ordinance
---------------------------

> Our HK Payroll module is compliant with 713 Ordinance which relates to the
> :abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` computation to ensure fair compensation for employees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HK Payroll module is compliant with 713 Ordinance which relates to the
:abbr:`ADW (Average Daily Wage)` computation to ensure fair compensation for employees.
```

The ADW computation is as follows:

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-adw.png
   :alt: Hong Kong ADW Formula

.. note::
   For 418 compliance, there is no automated allocation of the **Statutory Holiday**

>    entitlement to the employees. As soon as your employees meets the 418 requirements, you may
>    manually allocate the leaves via the **Time-Off** app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   entitlement to the employees. As soon as employees meet the 418 requirements, 
   manually allocate leaves via the *Time-Off* app.
```

> You may generate the following payslips (ensure payslip status is **Done**) to validate the outcome:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Payslips may now be generated. 

..:note: 
Before generating payslips, ensure the statuses are :guilabel:`Done` to validate the outcome:
```

The note is not formatted- but I think the sentence could be a note.

     - $0
     - $20324.33
     - $730.27 ($65724.33/90)
     - $769.49
   * - Apr (1 Day 80% Sick Leave)
     - 30
     - $20117.56
     - $0
     - -
     - -
     - $584.22 ($730.27*0.8)

Here is an example demonstrating the 713 logic:

- :guilabel:`Jan`: Generate a payslip with a monthly wage of $20200. The **ADW** is always computed on a cumulative basis of the trailing 12-months.
- :guilabel:`Feb`: Generate a similar payslip but add an **Other Input Type** for the Commission.
- :guilabel:`Mar`: We will apply for **one** full-paid annual leave in March. The salary compensation for the leave taken is based on ADW thus far.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-march-713.png
   :alt: Hong Kong March 713

- :guilabel:`Apr`: We will apply for a 1-day non-full pay leave in April. Since this is a non-full pay leave, the ADW is computed accordingly.

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-apr-713.png
   :alt: Hong Kong April 713

.. note::
   The value of ADW is computed in the backend and not be visible to the user.

.. seealso::
   - `HK 713 Ordinance <https://www.labour.gov.hk/eng/public/wcp/ConciseGuide/Appendix1.pdf>`_
   - `HK 418 Ordinance <https://www.workstem.com/hk/en/blog/418-regulations/>`_

> Generate your reports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generate reports
```

---------------------

> Before generating the below reports, remember to setup the following in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before generating the below reports, setup the following in
```

> Before generating the below reports, remember to setup the following in
> :menuselection:`Settings --> Payroll --> Accounting/HK Localization`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before generating the below reports, remember to setup the following in
:menuselection:`Settings app --> Payroll --> Accounting/HK Localization`.
```

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-report-setup.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Payroll Settings

IRD Report
~~~~~~~~~~

There are a total of **four** IRD reports available:

- :guilabel:`IR56B`: Employer's Return of Remuneration and Pensions
- :guilabel:`IR56E`: Notification of Commencement of Employment
- :guilabel:`IR56F`: Notification of Ceasation of Employment (remaining in HK)
- :guilabel:`IR56G`: Notification of Ceasation of Employment (departing from HK permanently)

> Go to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Reporting --> IR56B/E/F/G`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Reporting --> IR56B/E/F/G`:
```

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.
#. Fill in the relevant information for the IRD report.

> #. Click on :guilabel:`Populate` and the :guilabel:`Eligible Employees` smart button will show up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click on :guilabel:`Populate` and the :guilabel:`Eligible Employees` smart button appears.
```
try to avoid "will", "will be" etc. No future tense.

> #. The **Employee Declaration** status will be in draft and will be changed to **Generated PDF**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. The **Employee Declaration** status is :guilabel:`Draft` and then changes to **Generated PDF**.
```

I am not sure if Draft or Generate PDF appears on the UI- if so, they should have a GUIlabel.

   once the schedule runs.

> #. Once the PDF is generated, you can download the IRD form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Once the PDF is generated, the IRD form may be downloaded.
```

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-ir56b.png
   :alt: Hong Kong IR56B report

.. note::

>    You can manually trigger the scheduled action called **Payroll: Generate pdfs**.
>    It is set by default to run the PDF generation monthly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The scheduled action called **Payroll: Generate pdfs** can be manually triggered.
   It is set by default to run the PDF generation monthly.
```

Manulife MPF Sheet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Go to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Reporting --> Manulife MPF Sheet`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Reporting --> Manulife MPF Sheet`
```

#. Click on :guilabel:`New`.
#. Select the relevant Year, Month and Sequence No.
#. Click on :guilabel:`Create XLSX`.

> #. The Manulife MPF XLSX file will be generated and available for download.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. The Manulife MPF XLSX file is then generated and available for download.
```

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-manulife-sheet.png
   :alt: Hong Kong Manulife Sheet

> .. note::
>    We will not be developing further reports for other MPF trustee as there will be an
>    e-MPF platform setup by the local government.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   Odoo will not be developing further reports for other MPF trustee as there will be an
   e-MPF platform setup by the local government.
```

.. seealso::
   - `eMPF <https://www.mpfa.org.hk/en/empf/overview>`_

HSBC Autopay Report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you use HSBC Autopay as your batch payment method, you can click on **Create HSBC Autopay Report**
> and fill in the mandatory fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If :guilabel:`HSBC Autopay` is selected as the batch payment method, click :guilabel:`Create HSBC Autopay Report` and fill in the mandatory fields:
```
anything that is clicked on the UI should have a  guilabel

.. image:: hong_kong/hk-generate-autopay.png
   :alt: Hong Kong HSBC Autopay Wizard

> This will create an **.apc** file format which you can upload to HSCB portal for processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates an **.apc** file format which can be uploaded to an HSCB portal for processing.
```
